Congratulations!
Today is your day!
You're off to great places,
You're off and away!

You're on your own, and you know what you know,
And *you* are the guy who'll decide where to go.

You'll look up and down streets, look 'em over with care;
About some you will say "I don't choose to go there!"
And you may not find any you wish to go down - 
In that case of course you'll head straigt out of town.
It's opener there, in the wide open air.
Out there things can happen, and frequently do,
To people as brainy - and footsy - as you.
When things start to happen, don't worry, don't stew -
Just go right along, you'll start happening too!

Oh, the places you'll go!

You'll be on your way up, you'll be seeing new sights,
You'll join the high flyers who soar to high heights.
Wherever you go, you'll be the best of the best,
Whatever you do, you'll top all the rest.

Except when you don't.
Because sometimes, you won't.
And I am sorry to say so, but sadly, it is true,
That bang-ups and hang-ups can happen to you.
You can get all caught up in a prickly perch,
Your gang may fly on, you'll be left in the lurch.
You may come down from the lurch with an unpleasant bump,
And then you may find that you'll be in a slump.
When you're in a slump you're not in for much fun;
Unslumping yourself is not easily done.

You may come to a place where the streets are not marked.
Some windows are lighted, but mostly they're darked.
A place you could sprain both your elbow and chin -
Do you dare to stay out, do you dare to go in?
And if you go in, do you turn left, or right?
Or right-and-three-quarters, or maybe not quite?
Simple it's not, I'm afraid you will find,
For a mind maker-upper to make up her mind.

You can get so confused that you'll start in to race,
Down long wiggled roads, at a break-necking pace,
Or grind on for miles across weirdish wild space,
Headed, I fear, towards a most useless place:
The Waiting Place. For people just waiting.

Waiting for their plane to come,
Or the train to go, or the mail to come,
Or the phone to ring, or the rain to go,
Or the snow to snow, or their hair to grow,
Or waiting around for yes or no:
Everyone is just waiting.

Waiting for a fish to bite,
Or waiting for the wind to fly a kite,
Or waiting around for Friday night,
Or waiting perhaps for their uncle Jake,
Or a pot to boil, or a better break,
Or a wig with curls, or a pair of pants,
Or a string of pearls, or a second chance:
Everyone is just waiting.

No.
That's not for you; 
Somehow you'll escape all this waiting and staying,
You'll find the bright places, where boom bands are playing.
With banner flip-flapping, once more you'll ride high,
Ready for anything under the sky.
Ready, because you're that kind of guy.

Oh, the places you'll go! There is fun to be done,
There are points to be scored, there are games to be won,
And the magical things that you'll do with this ball,
Will make you the winningest winner of all!
Fame! You'll be famous! As famous can be!
With the whole wide world watching you win, on TV.
Except when they don't. Because sometimes, they won't.
I'm adraid that sometimes you'll play lonely games too -
Games you can't win, because you'll play against you.

All alone, whether you like it or not,
Alone is a thing that you'll be quite a lot.

And when you're alone, there's a very good chance
That you'll meet things which scare you right out of your pants.
There are some down the road, between hither and yon,
That will scare you so much you won't want to go on.
But on you will go, though the weather be foul,
On you will go, though your enemies prowl,
On you will go, though the Hakken-kracks howl,
Onward, up many a frightening creek,
Though your arms may get sore, and your sneakers may leak.
On and on you will hike, and I know you'll hike far,
And face up to your problems, whatever they are.

You'll get mixed up, of course, as you already know;
You'll get mixed up, with many strange birds, as you go.
So be sure when you step, step with care and great tact,
And remember, that life's a great balancing act.
Just never forget to be dexterous and deft,
And never mix up your right foot with your left.

And will you succed? Yes, you will indeed!
Ninety-eight and three quarters percent, guaranteed.

Kid, you'll move mountains,
So be your name Buxbaum, or Bixby, or Brae,
Or Mordecai Ali van Allen O'Shea,
You're off to great places, today is your day,
Your mountain is waiting, so,
Be on your way!