It little profits that an idle king, by this still hearth, amongst these barren crags; matched with an aged wife I mete and dole unequal laws unto a savage race, that hoard and sleep and feed and know not me. I cannot rest from travel, I will drink life to the lees, all times I have enjoyed greatly, have suffered greatly, both with those that loved me and alone on shore. And when, thro' scudding drifts the rainy Hyades vex't the dim sea I am become a name, for always roaming with a hungry heart.
Much have I seen and known - cities of men, and manners, climates, councils, governments; myself not least but honoured of them all, and drunk delight of battle with my peers, far on the ringing plains of wind Troy. 
I am a part of all that I have met - yet all experience is an arch, wherethro' gleams that untravell'd world whose margin fades, for ever and forever when I move. How dull it is to pause, to make an end! To rust unburnish'd, not to shine in use, as tho' to breathe were life! Life piled on life were all too little, and of one to me. Little remains, yet every hour is saved from that eternal silence - something more, a bringer of new things, and vile it were for some three suns to store and hoard myself, and this grey spirit yearning in desire to follow knowledge like a sinking star beyond the utmost bounds of human thought.

This is my son; mine own Telemachus, to whom I leave the sceptre and the isle. Well-loved of me, discerning to fulfil this labour by slow prudence to make mild a rugged people, and through soft degrees subdue them to the useful and the good. Most blameless is he; centred in the sphere of common duty; decent not to fail in offices of tenderness, and pay meet adoration to my household gods when I am gone. He works his work, I mine.

There lies the port, the vessel puffs her sail. There gloom the dark broad seas. My mariners - souls that have toil'd, and wrought and thought with me, that ever with a frolic welcome took the thunder and the sunshine, and opposed. Free hearts, free foreheads: you and I are old. Old age hath yet his honour and his toil; death closes all, but somthing ere the end, some work of noble note may yet be done, not unbecoming men that strove with gods.
The lights begin to twinkle from the rocks. The long day wanes, the slow moon climbs, the deep moans round with many voices.
Come my friends - 'tis not too late to seek a newer world: push off, and sitting well in order smite the sounding furrows, for my purpose holds: to sail beyond the sunset and the baths of all the western stars until I die.
It may be that the gulfs will wash us down. 
It may be we shall reach the Happy Isles, and see the great Achilles, whom we knew.
Tho' much is taken, much abides, and though we are not now that strength which in old days moved earth and heaven, that which we are we are: one equal temper of heroic hearts - made weak by time and fate but strong in will:
To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yeild.
